With synchronous JavaScript, we learned that
we can use try/catch blocks to handle errors.
When working with promises,
we learned to use the catch statement.
Now in both cases,
we can send custom error messages,
and we also learned that it can be difficult to handle errors while in JavaScript,
but with async/await, we have a choice.
Most developers prefer try/catch error handling with async/await, but some don't,
so I'll show you both ways so that you can decide
what situations would benefit from each kind of error handling.
One of the big benefits of using async/await is that a lot of the logic that
would have been in vengeance with promises can be written like synchronous JavaScript,
and like synchronous JavaScript,
it can be and you'll often see it this way,
written with try-catch blocks around it for error handling.
The argument for using try/catch blocks is that they can be
nested and customized according to the level of detail you need.
You'll recognize this code example,
but I've updated one of the promises to reject with an error message.
How do you think async/await will handle the scenario?
Let's run the code. You can see that we're still waiting for each promised to resolve,
but when the second one rejects,
we get that error printed to the console without any extra help.
It's not a great response,
and it's obvious we don't have any error handling going on here.
It turns out that in an async function,
a rejected promise has the same effect as throwing a new error,
and the reason for failure from the promise is passed as the message of the error.
That means that if we wrap this code in a try/catch block like I have here,
the catch statement should run when the promise rejects.
Let's see if that happens.
You can see that it worked.
We get our console log error message value
here instead of seeing the entire error like we did before.
What this means is that all of the things we learned about
exception handling with the try/catch earlier in this lesson,
now apply an async functions as well,
but I have one more code example for you to consider.
Here I've gone back to the code example that didn't have the try/catch,
but instead, I've added a catch statement at the end of the function call.
Now when I run it,
you can see that we get exactly the same response
as we did from the previous example that did have try/catch.
What this means is that we can handle errors in a catch after this promise
defied handleManyThings function or we can add try/catch to the inside of this logic.
Both of them achieve the same thing,
we're just handling the error in a different place.
I think it's more common to use try/catch with async/await,
but in the end, this part comes down to personal preference.
The only words of advice I have are these;
the most important thing is that you handle exceptions.
Whichever way you choose to achieve that is less important than the fact that you do it.
If the codebase you're working on already
has an established pattern for how to deal with errors,
keep consistent with that when you add new code.
This is actually a general principle that I think is a good idea.
If the codebase you are working on generally follows a pattern and that pattern works,
it's best to keep with that pattern for the sake of
consistency and predictability in the codebase,
even if it goes against your personal syntax preference.